DOC-REFACTOR: 1/n Refactoring the documentation - added first stab fo… (#1761)
modin-project/modin: docs/developer/architecture.rst

===================

In this section, we will lay out the overall system architecture for
Modin, as well as go into detail about the component design, implementation and
other important details. This document also contains important reference
information for those interested in contributing new functionality, bugfixes
and enhancements.

High-Level Architectural View
-----------------------------
The diagram below outlines the general layered view to the components of Modin
with a short description of each major section of the documentation following.

.. image:: /img/modin_architecture.png
   :align: center

Modin is logically separated into different layers that represent the hierarchy of a
typical Database Management System. Abstracting out each component allows us to
individually optimize and swap out components without affecting the rest of the system.
We can implement, for example, new compute kernels that are optimized for a certain type
of data by simply plugging it in to the existing infrastructure at the appropriate
interface. It will still be distributed by the computation engine layer with the
logic internally.

System View
---------------------------

> If we look to the overall class structure of the Modin system from very top, it will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we look at the overall high level class structure of the Modin system from very top, it will
```

look to something like this:

.. image:: /img/10000_meter.png
   :align: center

The user - Data Scientist interacts with the Modin system by sending interactive or
batch commands through API and Modin executes them using various backend execution
engines: Ray, Dask and MPI are currently supported.

Subsystem/Container View
------------------------
If we click down to the next level of details we will see that inside Modin the layered
architecture is implemented using several interacting components:

.. image:: /img/component_view.png
   :align: center

For the simplicity the other backend systems - Dask and MPI are omitted and only Ray backend is shown.

> * Dataframe subsystem is the backbone of the dataframe holding and query compilation. It is responsible for

Author: data frame storing

  on a selected backend execution subsystem and mapping or compiling the Dataframe Algebra DAG to and actual
  execution sequence.
* Backends module is responsible for mapping the abstract operation to an actual executor call, e.g. Pandas,
  PyArrow, custom backend.
* Orchestration subsystem is responsible for spawning and controlling the actual execution environment for the
  selected backend. It spawns the actual nodes, fires up the execution environment, e.g. Ray, monitors the state
  of executors and provides telemetry

Component View
--------------
Coming soon...

Module/Class View
-----------------
Coming soon...

DataFrame Partitioning
----------------------

The Modin DataFrame architecture follows in the footsteps of modern architectures for
database and high performance matrix systems. We chose a partitioning schema that
partitions along both columns and rows because it gives Modin flexibility and
scalability in both the number of columns and the number of rows supported. The
following figure illustrates this concept.

.. image:: /img/block_partitions_diagram.png
   :align: center

> Currently, each partition's memory format is a `pandas DataFrame`_. In the future, we will

Author: I didn't change it here, planning to change in the next commits.
